Added Python Documentation (#128)
spokestack/spokestack-website: content/docs/Python/nlu.md

---
title: NLU in Python
navId: NLU (Python)
description: Understanding the Python NLU API
draft: false
---

> This is a companion to the [NLU concept guide](/docs/Concepts/nlu), which is a detailed outline of the NLU module. Here we'll talk about usage issues specific to the Python client library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a companion to the [NLU concept guide](/docs/concepts/nlu), which is a detailed outline of the NLU module. Here we'll talk about usage issues specific to the Python client library.
```

### Configuration

> As a brief recap to the [guide](/docs/Concepts/nlu), every NLU model will have the three files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the concept guide, every NLU model will have three files:
```

I wouldn't say this one point is a summary of the whole other guide.

- `vocab.txt`
- `nlu.tflite`
- `metadata.json`

> The path to the directory containing these files is passed as the `model_dir` argument on initialization of the NLU.

Reviewer 2: ah, you may want to revise `getting-started.md` to include this information (it can be as minimal as an inline comment in the example code)

## Usage

> As mentioned in the [Getting Started](getting-started) guide, initializing the Spokestack NLU is done using a fluent interface, just like other Spokestack components.

Reviewer: This isn't true for Python. "Fluent interface" refers to the builders used in Android that let you set individual components via call chaining. The Python library doesn't have builders; you pass everything you need directly into the class constructor.

> As mentioned in the [Getting Started](getting-started) guide, initializing the Spokestack NLU is done using a fluent interface, just like other Spokestack components.

Reviewer 2: afaik `fluent interface` is a technical term for the Builder pattern, which is not what this example is showing.

```python
from spokestack.nlu.tflite import TFLiteNLU

nlu = TFLiteNLU("model_dir")
```

### NLU Results

> NLU results are returned in a wrapper that allows for easy access of the properties. The `Result` class contains:

Reviewer 2: it would be good to include a code snippet where you give an example output of the `Result` class.

> - `utterance` unmodified transcript received by the NLU
> - `intent` classified user intent
> - `confidence` model confidence in intent classification
> - `slots` slots tagged by the model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `utterance`: unmodified transcript received by the NLU
- `intent`: classified user intent
- `confidence`: model confidence in intent classification
- `slots`: slots tagged by the model
```

### Callback

> The callback for the NLU is going to take place on the "recognize" event. Take a look at the pipeline [guide](speech-pipeline) for a detailed explanation of callbacks. Below, is a sample of an NLU callback with the best practice of temporarily stopping the audio flow while the utterance is processed.

Reviewer: What you're describing isn't a callback for NLU; it's a speech pipeline event. In Android, NLU processing is done on a background thread to avoid blocking the UI, so the result is returned by a callback. NLU is synchronous in Python, so this section should be reworded or removed.

NLU results are returned in a wrapper that allows for easy access of the properties. The `Result` class contains:

- `utterance`: unmodified transcript received by the NLU
- `intent`: classified user intent
- `confidence`: model confidence in intent classification
- `slots`: slots tagged by the model

Each of these properties can be accessed from `Result` via dot notation. An example `Result` could look like this:

```python
print(f"utterance: {result.utterance}")
print(f"intent: {result.intent}")
print(f"confidence: {result.confidence}")

> print(f"slots: {result.slots}")

Reviewer: This is a bit of an awkward way to give an example of an object. I'm not sure you need to spell things out at this level; you could just leave it at "Each of these properties is stored in a field on the `Result` object in the previous section.

If you want to show it printed to the console, though, it'd be better to just implement `__repr__` and have an example that looks more like:

```shell
>> result
Result(utterance: turn the lights on in the kitchen, ...)
```

While you're at it, you probably don't want to just print the keys for `slots`; you'd want a full representation of the dict.

Author: > it would be good to include a code snippet where you give an example output of the `Result` class.
 this is based on what Noel said. `__repr__` is definitely the right way to handle output though. So I can add `__repr__` to `Result`

Author: Is there a better way of showing example output without printing to console?

Reviewer: Since it's just a data object, not really—I missed the original comment there and am not sure I really agree with it. Doesn't hurt anything to include it, though, and having a `__repr__` for this class would be good anyway.
